# Configuring user resource limits and Manage access

Sometimes when there are too many users, you want to make sure a particular user doesn't use the whole CPU. So, you set limits to the amount of CPU they can use by editing `sudo vim /etc/security/limits.conf`. In it you can specify domain limits which are usernames, groups by using '@' or everyone with '*'. Next, 'type', which can be soft or hard, if soft the limit can go beyond, but not above the hard limit. Then, the 'item' such as 'nproc' which is the max number of processes, max fsize, cpu, etc.Bahs shell is a process. `ulimit -a` shows limits for current session. Users can only lower it's limits. You can set hard and soft at the same time with '-'.

Wheel group users are allowed to use sudo, the easier way to give a user sudo acess is to add them to wheels `sudo gpasswd -a user wheel`. If we want more granular approach, you can specify when a particular sudo user is allowed to sudo by editing /etc/sudoers file indirectly using `sudo visudo`, which opens vim and at the end you see `%wheel ALL=(ALL) ALL`. This means that all users of wheel can sudo at will. To reference users type the user first and to reference groups '%group'. If you specify users in parenthesis, the user can only use sudo as the specified users. You can also specify in a comma separated list the commands allowed to sudo such as /bin/ls or /bin/stat. If it's not specified the user will have to use password to use sudo. You can set this off with NOPASSWD: ALL.

