# Linux: List, Set and Change File Permissions

To list the permissions of all files in a directory you use `ls -l`. Files and directories can only be modified by the owner, unless the sudo root user. Linux also has groups to which the files or directories can be assigned. To change the assignation to a different group you use `chgrp group_name file/directory`. You can only change the groups that the current user is part of; to see the groups you use `groups`. You can also change ownership of a file or dir to another user with the command `sudo chown user file/directory`. This can only be done by the sudo user. You can change both user and group ownership with this command, but you must use the following syntax: `sudo chown user:group_name file/directory`. 

`ls -l` also shows the permissions and caregory of the files. The categories are d (directory), - (reg file), c (character device), l (link), s (socket file), p (pipe), b (block device). Next nine characters show permissions `rwxrwxrwx`, exh set of `rwx` corresponds to user (u), group (g) and others (o). The meaning of these is slightly different if it's a file or a directory; r means read permission, w write permission and x execute permission. If there is a - (dash) there is no permission. For files this `rwx` referrs to modyifing the contents of the file; whereas for directories it applies to the directory itself, files and subdirectories inside. r means you can see it with `ls`, w means you can write to this directory; i.e. adding or creating files/subdirs in this directory; x means we can execute in the directories; i.e. using `cd` to enter the directory. Permissions are read by Linux from left to right, so if the group has permissions, but the user that owns the file and belongs to the group doesn't, the permissions related to the user apply. If the user is not the owner, but part of the group, group permissions apply. If it belongs to neither, other permissions apply. To change permissions of files you use `chmod permissions file/directory`. To add permissions you use `u+wrx` for user, `g+rwx` for group and `o+rwx` for others. To remove permissions you do the same, but instead of + you use -. To set the exact permissions you replace the + or - with =. If you omit all letters in this it would remove all the permission, just like `o-rwx`. You can join all user, group and other permissions by using commas: `chmod u+rw,g=r,o=`. You can also use octal permissions. The `stat` command also shouw permissions, but with the Octal value at the begining representing the groups. These are calculated by binary representation, which when converted each part into decimals gives some values. Another approach would be the octal table, in which each permission has a value 4 for r, 2 for w 1 for x. Once identified, we can use the number with the `chmod` to modify permissions: `chmod 640 file/dir`.
